Docs: First GeoJSON update to docs for v8.3 (#42394)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/visualizations/geomap.md

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-example-8-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Geomap panel" >}}

## Map View

The map view controls the initial view of the map when the dashboard loads. 

### Initial View

The initial view configures how the GeoMap panel renders when the panel is first loaded.

* **View** sets the center for the map when the panel first loads.
* **Latitude** (available when the **View** mode is *Coordinates*)
* **Longitude** (available when the **View** mode is *Coordinates*)
* **Zoom** sets the initial zoom level for the GeoMap panel.

## Data layer

The Geomap visualization supports multiple Data Layers. Each data layer determines how you visualize geospatial data on top of the base map.

### Layer Types

> There are four layer types to choose from in the Geomap visualization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are four-layer types to choose from in the Geomap visualization.
```

* **Marker** renders a marker at each data point.
* **Heatmap** visualizes a heatmap of the data.
* **GeoJSON** renders static data from a geojson file.

### Layer Controls

The layer controls allow you to create layers, change their name, reorder and delete layers.

> * **Add layer** creates an additional, configurable data layer for the Geomap visualization. When you add a layer you will be prompted to select a layer type. The layer type can be changed at any point during panel configuration. See the **Layer Types** section above for details on each layer type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Add layer** creates an additional, configurable data layer for the Geomap visualization. When you add a layer, you are prompted to select a layer type. You can change the layer type at any point during panel configuration. See the **Layer Types** section above for details on each layer type.
```

* The layer controls allow you to rename, delete, and reorder the layers of the panel.

>   * **Edit layer name (pencil icon)** renames the layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Edit layer name (pencil icon)** renames the layer.
```

>   * **Trash Bin** deletes the layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Trash Bin** deletes the layer.
```

>   * **Reorder (six dots/grab handle)** enables changing the layer order. Data on higher layers will appear above data on lower layers. The panel will update the layer order as you drag and drop to help simplify chosing a layer order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Reorder (six dots/grab handle)** eallows you to change the layer order. Data on higher layers will appear above data on lower layers. The panel will update the layer order as you drag and drop to help simplify choosing a layer order.
```

You can add multiple layers of data to a single Geomap panel in order to create rich, detailed visualizations.

### Location

The Geomap panel needs a source of geographical data. This data comes from a database query, and there are four mapping options for your data.

- **Auto** automatically searches for location data. Use this option when your query is based on one of the following names for data fields.
  - geohash: “geohash”
  - latitude: “latitude”, “lat”
  - longitude: “longitude”, “lng”, “lon”
  - lookup: “lookup”
- **Coords** specifies that your query holds coordinate data. You will get prompted to select numeric data fields for latitude and longitude from your database query.
- **Geohash** specifies that your query holds geohash data. You will get prompted to select a string data field for the geohash from your database query.
- **Lookup** specifies that your query holds location name data that needs to be mapped to a value. You will get prompted to select the lookup field from your database query and a gazetteer. The gazetteer is the directory that is used to map your queried data to a geographical point.

### Markers layer

> The markers layer allows you to display data points as different marker shapes such as circle, squares, triangles, stars, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The markers layer allows you to display data points as different marker shapes such as circles, squares, triangles, stars, and more.
```

![Markers Layer](/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-markers-8-1-0.png)

![Markers Layer Options](/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-markers-options-8-1-0.png)

- **Marker Color** configures the color of the marker. The default `Fixed size` keeps all points a single color. There is an alternate option to have multiple colors depending on the data point values and the threshold set at the `Thresholds` section.

> - **Marker Size** configures the size of the marker. Default is `Fixed size`, making all marker size the same regardless of the data points. However, there is also an option to scale the circles to the corresponding data points. `Min` and `Max` marker size has to be set such that the Marker layer can scale within these range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Marker Size** configures the size of the marker. Default is `Fixed size`, making all marker size the same regardless of the data points. However, there is also an option to scale the circles to the corresponding data points. `Min` and `Max` marker size has to be set such that the Marker layer can scale within this range.
```

> - **Marker Shape** allows you to choose the shape, icon or graphic to aid in providing additional visual context to your data. Choose from assets which are included with Grafana such as simple shapes or the Unicon library. You can also specify a URL containing an image asset. The image must be a scalable vector graphic (svg). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Marker Shape** allows you to choose the shape, icon, or graphic to aid in providing additional visual context to your data. Choose from assets that are included with Grafana such as simple shapes or the Unicon library. You can also specify a URL containing an image asset. The image must be a scalable vector graphic (SVG). 
```

- **Fill opacity** configures the transparency of each marker.

### Heatmap layer

The heatmap layer clusters various data points to visualize locations with different densities.
To add a heatmap layer:

Click on the drop-down menu under Data Layer and choose `Heatmap`.

Similar to `Markers`, you are prompted with various options to determine which data points to visualize and how.

![Heatmap Layer](/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-heatmap-8-1-0.png)

![Heatmap Layer Options](/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-heatmap-options-8-1-0.png)

> - **Weight values** configures the intensity of the heatmap clusters. `Fixed value` keeps a constant weight value throughout all data points. This value should be in the range of 0~1. Similar to Markers, there is an alternate option in the drop-down to automatically scale the weight values depending on data values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Weight values** configure the intensity of the heatmap clusters. `Fixed value` keeps a constant weight value throughout all data points. This value should be in the range of 0~1. Similar to Markers, there is an alternate option in the drop-down to automatically scale the weight values depending on data values.
```

- **Radius** configures the size of the heatmap clusters.
- **Blur** configures the amount of blur on each cluster.

### GeoJSON layer

The GeoJSON layer allows you to select and load a static GeoJSON file from the filesystem.

> * **GeoJSON URL** provides a choice of GeoJSON files which ship with Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **GeoJSON URL** provides a choice of GeoJSON files that ship with Grafana.
```

> * **Default Syle** controls which styles to apply when no rules above match. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Default Style** controls which styles to apply when no rules above match. 
```

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-example-8-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Geomap panel" >}}

## Map View

The map view controls the initial view of the map when the dashboard loads. 

### Initial View

The initial view configures how the GeoMap panel renders when the panel is first loaded.

* **View** sets the center for the map when the panel first loads.
* **Latitude** (available when the **View** mode is *Coordinates*)
* **Longitude** (available when the **View** mode is *Coordinates*)
* **Zoom** sets the initial zoom level for the GeoMap panel.

## Data layer

The Geomap visualization supports multiple Data Layers. Each data layer determines how you visualize geospatial data on top of the base map.

### Layer Types

There are four layer types to choose from in the Geomap visualization.

* **Marker** renders a marker at each data point.
* **Heatmap** visualizes a heatmap of the data.
* **GeoJSON** renders static data from a geojson file.

> * **Icon at last point (alpha)** renders an icon at the last point in a series of points.

Reviewer 2: Do we typically reference alpha features in panel docs (given general user won't see option unless they have opted in to alpha features)?

Author: You're right, I'll remove.

### Layer Controls

The layer controls allow you to create layers, change their name, reorder and delete layers.

* **Add layer** creates an additional, configurable data layer for the Geomap visualization. When you add a layer you will be prompted to select a layer type. The layer type can be changed at any point during panel configuration. See the **Layer Types** section above for details on each layer type.

> * The layer controls allow you to rename, delete, and reorder the layers of the panel.

Reviewer 2: It may be good to note what layer order means (I'm actually not sure myself), whether that means z-index of how we render the data (i.e. impacts layer visibility) or something else

Author: Great call out - it is indeed a relative z-index and the layers which are higher on the list will display over the lower layers - so while it works as expected this is a great call out to clarify. Thanks!

- **Lookup** specifies that your query holds location name data that needs to be mapped to a value. You will get prompted to select the lookup field from your database query and a gazetteer. The gazetteer is the directory that is used to map your queried data to a geographical point.

### Markers layer

The markers layer allows you to display data points as different marker shapes such as circle, squares, triangles, stars, and more.

![Markers Layer](/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-markers-8-1-0.png)

![Markers Layer Options](/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-markers-options-8-1-0.png)

- **Marker Color** configures the color of the marker. The default `Fixed size` keeps all points a single color. There is an alternate option to have multiple colors depending on the data point values and the threshold set at the `Thresholds` section.
- **Marker Size** configures the size of the marker. Default is `Fixed size`, making all marker size the same regardless of the data points. However, there is also an option to scale the circles to the corresponding data points. `Min` and `Max` marker size has to be set such that the Marker layer can scale within these range.

> - **Marker Shape** provides you with the flexibility to visualize the data points differently.

Reviewer 2: I think we now support a lot more options (including all unicons), so we may want to mention increased options at very least here

Author: Great call out. I'm going to resolve this and push another change with an expanded markers section.
